# Text embeddings

## Transcript

After extracting some number of text chunks

out of a source document, the next step inside of our rag pipeline

is to wait for a user to submit a question or query or something

like that. And whenever that occurs, we need to take a look

at all of our different text chunks and find some number

that seems to be somehow related to the user's question so

that we can add them as context into our prompt.

Now, this process of finding some number of text

chunks that are related to the user's question, oh,

there's a lot of complexity hidden there. But when

we really think about it, this truly is a search

problem. We want to take the user's question and

search through all of our different chunks until we find some

related content and then surface those in some

way. The most common way of implementing this inside of a rag

pipeline is by implementing a system known as semantic

search. Semantic search utilizes something

called text embeddings to better understand what each

chunk of text is all about and somehow find

the chunk of text most related to the user's question.

Now we're going to spend a decent amount of time now to focus on text

embeddings and really understand what they are

doing for us. So let's take a look at a couple of diagrams.

A text embedding is a numerical representation of

the meaning contained in some text. These

text embeddings are generated by something called an embedding

model. We feed text into an embedding

model, such as I'm very happy today, and

the embedding model is going to spit out a long list of numbers.

That long list of numbers is our actual embedding. The

numbers inside the embedding can range from negative 1

up to positive 1. So now the question is,

what do these numbers really mean? Each number

inside of an embedding represents a score of some

quality of the input text. Now, this

is where things get a little confusing because I'm showing two

conflicting ideas in this diagram. Let me break

this down for you and just be super clear. In reality,

we do not know what quality each number inside

the embedding is actually tied to. So when I

label that first number and say, this is a score of how

happy the text is, that's not entirely accurate. We simply

don't know what that first number truly represents.

Nonetheless, it is very helpful to think of these numbers

in that way. It is helpful to imagine that the first

number might be one score of how happy the

text is. And the second is how much the text

is talking about fruit, et cetera. Again, these

labels are completely made up by me, and we don't actually

know what each number represents, but it's extremely helpful

to think about embeddings in this way. So

that's how you really want to picture each of these numbers. They are kind of like

scores of some different qualities of the input

text. The last thing you need to understand is how to actually generate

these embeddings. Claude does not currently provide

embedding generation. Instead, the recommended provider

is Voyage AI. This is a separate company,

so requires sign up of a separate account and a different API

key. However, it is free to get started and super

easy to use. Attached to this lecture is a PDF

that will walk you through the process of creating an account and getting

an API key. Once you have generated the API

key, you need to add it into your .env file

right next to your existing Anthropic API key.

Make sure you assign it to a variable named Voyage

underscore API underscore key. So

then right there, you put the generated key that you just

got. Once you have updated the .EMV

file, I would also encourage you to download attached

to this lecture a new notebook file called 002

embeddings. At the very top, you'll find a command

that you need to run in order to install the Voyage

AI SDK. So make sure you run that command

to install the library. Lower on down inside

this notebook, I've already put together a function for us called generate

embedding. This function is going to take in some piece

of text and then return an embedding for it, pretty much as simple

as it gets. So if I run all the cells inside here

and then run the bottom cell, which is currently opening up the report,

chunking the report, and then taking the first chunk and

passing into generate embedding. If I then run the cell,

I'll get back my list of embeddings. As you can see,

generating embeddings is rather quick and rather painless.

So the real challenge here is not creating embeddings, it's understanding

how they actually fit into our overall rag pipeline.

So that's going to be the next topic that we investigate.
