# Text embeddings

## Transcript

After extracting some number of text chunks

out of a source document, the next step inside of our rag pipeline

is to wait for a user to submit a question or query or something

like that. And whenever that occurs, we need to take a look

at all of our different text chunks and find some number

that seems to be somehow related to the user's question so

that we can add them as context into our prompt.

Now, this process of finding some number of text

chunks that are related to the user's question, oh,

there's a lot of complexity hidden there. But when

we really think about it, this truly is a search

problem. We want to take the user's question and

search through all of our different chunks until we find some

related content and then surface those in some

way. The most common way of implementing this inside of a rag

pipeline is by implementing a system known as semantic

search. Semantic search utilizes something called

text embeddings to better understand what each chunk

of text is all about and somehow find the

chunk of text most related to the user's question. Now

we're going to spend a decent amount of time now to focus on text

embeddings and really understand what they are

doing for us. So let's take a look at a couple of diagrams.

A text embedding is a numerical representation of

the meaning contained in some text. These

text embeddings are generated by something called an embedding

model. We feed text into an embedding

model, such as I'm very happy today, and

the embedding model is going to spit out a long list of numbers.

That long list of numbers is our actual embedding. The

numbers inside the embedding can range from negative 1

up to positive 1. So now the question is,

what do these numbers really mean? Each number

inside of an embedding represents a score of some

quality of the input text. Now, this

is where things get a little confusing because I'm showing two

conflicting ideas in this diagram. Let me break

this down for you and just be super clear. In reality,

we do not know what quality each number inside

the embedding is actually tied to. So when I

label that first number and say, this is a score of how

happy the text is, that's not entirely accurate. We

simply don't know what that first number truly represents.

Nonetheless, it is very helpful to think of these numbers

in that way. It is helpful to imagine that the first

number might be one score of how happy the

text is. And the second is how much the text

is talking about fruit, et cetera. Again, these

labels are completely made up by me, and we don't actually

know what each number represents, but it's extremely helpful

to think about embeddings in this way. So

that's how you really want to picture each of these numbers. They are kind of like

scores of some different qualities of the input

text. The last thing you need to understand is how to actually

generate these embeddings. And Claude cannot make

the embeddings. Instead, on Vertex, we're going to use a slightly

different model. One dedicated, solely to a generation

of text embeddings. The name of the model that we're going to use is

Claude 3.7 Sonnet. Let's

take a look at a notebook that's going to show you how to make use of this model

to generate some embeddings. So back over here, I've

made a new notebook called 002 underscore

embeddings. To access this model, we need to make

use of the Vertex SDK. You can install this

by running PIP install Google-GenAI.

We'll then create a client specifically to access this particular

model. You'll need to fill in your project ID or

right there. To actually make an embedding, I've put together

a helper function for us called generate_embedding. This

is going to take in some amount of text, pass it through

the model, and then return our embeddings.

To test this thing out, I've got a little bit of code down here

that's going to load up our report.txt file, chunk

it by section, and then just pass the first chunk into

that helper function. So I'm going to run this now, and

we'll see what we get back in return. In our response,

we get our big list of embeddings back. So as

you can see, generation of embeddings is not particularly

hard. It's really understanding how we actually use them. So

let's come back the next video and really understand how these embeddings

fit into the larger picture.
