# Structured data with tools

## Transcript

Earlier on inside this course, we spoke about how to get structured

output from Claude by using

some clever techniques. In particular, we discussed using a message

pre-fill and stop sequences,

along with a carefully structured prompt in order to get some JSON

out of Claude.

Now this definitely worked well and it was very easy to set up, but

we can get some more reliable

output by a very clever use of tools. So we're going to take a look

at how we can implement

structured output using tools alone without having to worry about any

message pre-filling

or stop sequences. Now I anticipate one of your very first questions

is going to be,

why did we learn about this style of structured output when we could

have just used tools all along?

Well, the answer is very simple. Using tools for structured output is

a lot more set up,

there's a lot more complexity. So having both these abilities of

getting structured data at your

disposal is really valuable because in some scenarios, you might want

to just make use of this prompt-based

structured output. In other scenarios, you might want to make use of

tools. All right,

so let's take a look at how we can make use of tools to generate

structured data. Now as I just

mentioned, this is a alternate method of extracting structured data,

primarily JSON out of some data

source. This is more reliable than past techniques we took a look at,

but again, much more complex

to set up. The general idea here is that we are going to write out a

JSON schema spec for a tool

whose inputs are going to be the structure of data that we are

looking for. So back over here a

moment ago, when we looked at this prompt, we can imagine that we

were asking Claude to take a look

at a financial statement and extract a balance that was an integer

and a list of key insights that

was going to be a list of strings. So if we wanted to approach this

using tool-based structured output,

we would write out a JSON schema spec where the inputs would be a

balance that's going to be an

integer and key insights that's going to be a list of strings. Then

we're going to feed this

JSON schema spec into Claude along with the financial data that we

might want to get some

information out of. Now at this point, let me show you a diagram of

the flow because it's a lot

easier to understand in diagram format. Okay, so just as before, we

are going to write out a

reasonable prompt for Claude. So we might say analyze a filing

financial statement and then call

some provided tool. Along with this prompt with all the statement

data inside of it, we'll also

provide that schema. So that's going to go off to Claude. Claude is

going to take a look at the

prompt. It's going to see the tool that is available to it. And it's

going to say,

Oh, fantastic. I will call this financial analysis tool. And I'll

make sure that I provide arguments

that match this structure right here. So Claude is then going to

respond back to us

with a assistant message that presumably will have just one tool use

part. And then we'll say,

I want to call the financial analysis tool. And here is the input to

it. And the input will be

the extracted JSON that we are looking for. So it's going to be

exactly these arguments right

here. Our balance that's a number and the key insights that is a

string. So once we get that

assistant message, this part is the worst part because I honestly

feel bad for Claude.

We basically take that JSON data right there. And we just said,

Claude, Hey, thanks for the data.

We're out. We got what we were looking for. And we don't continue the

message from beyond that

point. Because at this point, we got the data we were looking for. We

got those arguments. We got

that extracted data. And so there's no need for us to do any follow

up in this conversation at all.

We can just take the data and use it for whatever purpose we have. So

that is the general idea

behind using tools for generating structured data. Now again, best

way to really understand

this is to take a look at an example. So I would encourage you to

download another notebook here.

Its name is 003 structure data in the current module. I've got a lot

of setup code in here,

some example tool schemas. And I've got a little example of a very

simple data generation.

So I'm asking Claude right now to write out a one paragraph article

about computer science.

And I ask it to include a title and an author name. So this is some

data. Now let's just imagine

that this data was not generated by Claude. Let's imagine that maybe

we have this article from some

other source and we want to extract information from it. Maybe we

want to extract specifically

the title right here, the author, and then maybe some primary topics

that are mentioned inside of

the article. And we want to extract all this as JSON. So we could use

the old technique we saw,

where we write out a prompt, we do the message prefilling and some

stop sequences and we write

out the structure of JSON that we are looking for. But another way we

could do this is by making

use of tool based data extraction. So let me show you how we would do

that.

Step one, we would write out our tool schema. Now again, just to save

us a whole bunch of time,

I have already authored a tool schema for you. It's inside of this

tool schema section. So it's

called article details schema. And you can take a look at the

description. But the primary part that

we really care about here is the fact that we are asking for input to

this kind of fake tool here

of a title, an author, and a list of topics. So now that we have this

tool schema, we're going to make

a request to Claude, we are going to ask it to take this text right

here, extract the key data,

and call that tool that you just saw with all the data that has been

extracted. So let me show you

how we'd write out the code for that. First, I'm going to make a new

list of messages. I'm going to

add in a user message. And I'm going to make it a multi line f string

. There we go. And I'm going

to ask Claude to analyze the article below and extract key data, then

call the article details

tool. And I'll use some XML tags, and I'll put in my article text.

And that's going to come from

our variable up here, result text. So I'm going to assume you ran the

cell result text should contain

all the article text that was generated. So I'm going to refer to

result text right there.

All right, so that is our user message as a part of a brand new

conversation that we are starting.

So now we are going to call chat, pass in our messages, and list out

the different tools we

want to include. And in this case, we want to include that article

details schema.

Now when Claude sees this, we really want to make sure that Claude

makes use of this tool.

So this would be a really good place to make use of that setting that

we discussed a little bit

ago, specifically the tool choice setting. Remember, by default,

Claude is going to decide if it needs

to use a tool or not. But if we want to, we can force Claude to make

use of a specific tool

by adding in something like this inside of our request parameters. So

we'll put in tool choice

inside their dictionary with tool name, and then the name of the tool

to call. So this would be a

perfect scenario of making use of this option, because we're going to

force Claude to make use of

this provided tool. Now to add in this option, I have already done a

little bit of work on the

chat function for us. Let me show you what I did. If we scroll up the

implementation of the chat

function, here it is right here. So I added in a new keyword argument

of tool underscore choice.

And by default, it is set to auto. Then down here, you will find some

code that makes use of that

argument. Now I would encourage you to read over this code closely.

Essentially, the way it works is

if you pass in a string of auto, it will set the appropriate auto

option. If you pass in any,

it will set the any option. And if you pass in as tool choice right

here, the name of a specific

tool, it will go to this style of input right here. So it will

automatically make this little

dictionary and put in your provided tool name as the name. So in

short, to make use of this thing,

let me show you how. Back down here at the very bottom chat call that

we just added in,

I'm going to put in a tool choice. And I'm going to set that to our

article details tool.

All right, so let's test this out. I'm going to assign the result to

this to JSON result.

And print that thing out afterwards. I'll run this and let's see how

we do. All right, very good.

There is my JSON output. Now very quickly, if you saw a result of

something like unknown or

something like that, make sure that you ran the cell above that

actually generates some text to

use because result text might be empty if you just open up the

notebook and you did not run that cell.

So now we can take a look at this output right here. So we can see

that we have an input to this

tool that's going to be this JSON object that has the exact

properties that we were looking for.

It has the author of the article, the title, and then a list of

mentioned topics. And that's the

entire process. So once we have this input right here, really, for us

, its output, so to speak,
