# Text embeddings

## Transcript

After extracting some number of text chunks

 out of a source document,

 the next step inside of our rag pipeline

 is to wait for a user to submit a question

 or a query or something like that.

 And whenever that occurs,

 we need to take a look at all of our different text chunks

 and find some number that seem to be somehow

 related to the user's question,

 so that we can add them as context into our prompt.

 Now, this process of finding some number of text chunks

 that are related to the user's question,

 oh, there's a lot of complexity hidden there.

 But when we really think about it,

 this truly is a search problem.

 We want to take the user's question

 and search through all of our different chunks

 until we find some related content

 and then surface those in some way.

 The most common way of implementing this

 inside of a rag pipeline

 is by implementing a system known as semantic search.

 Semantic search utilizes something called text embeddings

 to better understand what each chunk of text is all about

 and somehow find the chunk of text

 most related to the user's question.

 Now, we're gonna spend a decent amount of time now

 to focus on text embeddings

 and really understand what they are doing for us.

 So let's take a look at a couple of diagrams.

 A text embedding is a numerical representation

 of the meaning contained in some text.

 These text embeddings are generated by something called

 an embedding model.

 We feed text into an embedding model,

 such as I'm very happy today

 and the embedding model is going to spit out

 a long list of numbers.

 That long list of numbers is our actual embedding.

 The numbers inside the embedding

 can range from negative one up to positive one.

 So now the question is,

 what do these numbers really mean?

 Each number inside of an embedding

 represents a score of some quality of the input text.

 Now, this is where things get a little confusing

 because I'm showing two conflicting ideas in this diagram.

 Let me break this down for you and just be super clear.

 In reality, we do not know what quality

 each number inside the embedding is actually tied to.

 So when I label that first number and say,

 "This is a score of how happy the text is,"

 that's not entirely accurate.

 We simply don't know what that first number

 truly represents.

 Nonetheless, it is very helpful

 to think of these numbers in that way.

 It is helpful to imagine that the first number

 might be one score of how happy the text is

 and the second is how much the text

 is talking about fruit, et cetera.

 Again, these labels are completely made up by me

 and we don't actually know what each number represents,

 but it's extremely helpful to think about embeddings

 in this way.

 So that's how you really want to picture each of these numbers.

 They are kind of like scores

 of some different qualities of the input text.

 Now that we have a vague idea

 of what embeddings are all about,

 let's go back over to our notebook.

 We're gonna try to create an embedding

 and get a better handle on what they are going to do for us.

 All right, so back over here,

 I've opened up a new notebook called 002 underscore embeddings.

 Make sure you open up that notebook as well.

 Inside of here, at the very top,

 I am creating a bedrock client,

 just as we've done many times previously.

 And then a little bit further down,

 I've made a function called generate embedding.

 So this is a function that we can call,

 we'll pass in a bit of text,

 it's gonna reach out to AWS bedrock

 and generate embedding for us.

 To use it, I'm gonna go down to the bottom.

 And down here, the first thing I want to point out

 is that you do need to specify a embedding model ID.

 As I mentioned a moment ago,

 there are different embedding models out there.

 So we want to use a very particular one in this case.

 It is Titan embed text V2.

 Now, you might not have default access to this model.

 If you don't, that's totally fine.

 You can hop onto the bedrock console

 and request access for it.

 And if you still can't even do that,

 you can always use version one,

 that is totally fine as well.

 For our purposes, it will work just as well as version two.

 Then inside the rest of the notebook,

 I'm gonna open up the file, report.md once again.

 I'm going to chunk it by section,

 and then I'm going to pass in the first chunk

 to the generate embedding function.

 Let's run that and see what we get back.

 So we get back a huge list of numbers.

 So these are our individual embedding values.

 If you scroll down a little bit,

 you can see the list goes on for quite a while.

 By default, you're going to get back a list of embeddings

 that is 1024 elements long.

 So as you can see, generating embeddings

 is super easy and straightforward.

 There's truly not a lot of complexity here.

 So the real question that we need to understand

 is not really so much how do we generate an embedding,

 so much as it is, what do embeddings do for us?

 And how are they useful during the rag pipeline?

 Remember, we got into this entire topic

 when we started talking about semantic search.

 So we're gonna take a quick pause right here.

 We're gonna come back in just a moment,

 and we're going to outline the entire rag pipeline

 in greater detail.

 And I'm going to show you where embeddings

 really fit into the entire process

 and why this idea of having a mathematical

 or numerical representation of some chunk of text

 is useful at all.
