# Extended thinking

## Transcript

Let's examine one of Claude's more advanced features known as

 extended thinking.

 Extended thinking gives Claude time to reason about the user's query

 before generating

 a final response.

 In many chat UIs, this will be displayed as a separate thinking

 process, which the user

 can optionally look at to get a better idea of how Claude is

 approaching their problem.

 In general, enabling extended thinking will allow Claude to tackle

 more complex tasks

 with greater accuracy, but there are some big trade-offs here.

 You are charged for tokens generated by Claude during the thinking

 phase, and the phase itself

 takes some amount of time to complete.

 So with increased intelligence comes increased cost and there's

 increased latency as well.

 Now, a common issue around extended thinking is deciding when to

 enable it, and the answer

 to this is really simple.

 You're going to rely on your prompt evals.

 So you're going to write out a prompt, you're going to run an eval on

 it, and if the accuracy

 is not where you want it to be, and you've already spent some good

 amount of effort on

 improving your prompt in the first place, that is when you would want

 to consider enabling

 extended thinking.

 Now, the use of extended thinking is really straightforward.

 Remember, when we normally use Claude, we send over a user message

 that might contain

 a text part, and then we're going to get back an assistant message

 that contains a text

 part as well.

 When we start to enable extended thinking, the response we get back

 is going to contain

 a new part type.

 And we have not seen before.

 It's called the reasoning content part.

 Inside of this part is going to be the text that was generated while

 Claude was thinking.

 There's something really interesting about this reasoning content

 part that I want to

 show you right away, because you're going to see it really quickly as

 soon as you start

 writing out some code and making requests with extended thinking.

 So this kind of interesting thing is the signature.

 So on the right hand side, I've got an example of an assistant

 message that includes a reasoning

 content part and a text part as well.

 Inside the reasoning content part, you'll notice that there is

 something called a signature.

 The signature is a cryptographic token.

 Here's what the signature does.

 If you want to take this message and send it back to Claude as part

 of the conversation

 in the future, Claude wants to make sure that you did not modify the

 text in the reasoning

 content block in any way.

 The signature is used to make sure that you did not change that text.

 That doesn't want you changing that text at all, because it is used

 very heavily during

 response generation.

 And if developers were allowed to modify that text, they could

 possibly steer Claude in a

 unsafe direction.

 There's one other aspect of reasoning content parts kind of related

 to this idea.

 So in some cases, you might get back a reasoning content part that

 only has a field of redacted

 content.

 This occurs whenever Claude generates some thinking text that gets

 flagged by some internal

 safety system.

 The redacted content is the actual thinking text, but in a fully

 encrypted form.

 It is provided to you so you can give this full message back to

 Claude in the future as

 part of a conversation without Claude losing any context on its

 previous thinking.

 To really understand extended thinking, we need to write out a little

 bit of code.

 So let's go back over to a Jupyter notebook.

 I've made a new notebook called 001 thinking.

 Inside of here, the first thing we need to do is update our chat

 helper function that

 we have put together previously.

 So I'm going to find the chat function right here.

 And I'm going to begin by updating it to add in some additional

 keyword arguments.

 I'm going to pass in a thinking argument and by default, it will be

 false and a thinking

 underscore budget of 1024.

 This thinking budget is the number of tokens that we want to allow

 Claude to spend on generating

 its thinking portion of the response.

 So 1024 means Claude can spend at most 1024 tokens on generating some

 thinking thoughts

 ahead of time before it will be forced to finally respond to us in

 some way.

 1024 is the minimum.

 So this will serve as our default.

 And if we ever want to give Claude a little bit more allowance and

 allow it to think longer,

 we might bump this value up a little bit.

 The optimal value right here, again, it comes down to your emails.

 There's really no rule of thumb where I can just say to you, oh, yeah

, 1024 is perfect.

 You have to rely upon your emails to decide upon a budget that is

 right for your particular

 application.

 So now we have added in these keyword arguments.

 We're going to do a little bit more refactoring, a little bit lower.

 I'm going to find the if statement of if text editor, so you might

 recall previously,

 we added in the ability for Claude to use that text editor tool.

 And to enable it, we had to create this additional parameter of

 additional model request fields.

 To enable thinking, we have to place an additional parameter on this

 dictionary.

 So we're going to do a little bit of a refactor here, just so it's

 easier to use the text

 editor and thinking separately.

 Here's what we're going to do.

 Right above the if statement, I'll make a new dictionary called

 additional model fields,

 and we'll start off as empty.

 Then inside the if statement, I'm going to delete everything from the

 colon right there

 of tools to the start of the line.

 And I'll say additional model request or just no request fields.

 There we go.

 And then I will index into this with tools.

 And I'll set that to the list, like so, so we should have additional

 model fields.

 We're looking up tools inside there, and we're going to set that to

 be this whole list.

 Then underneath that, I'm going to place a new if statement, and I'll

 say, if we are

 enabling thinking, then I want to add into the additional model

 fields.

 A thinking property, that's going to be a dictionary with a type of

 enabled and budget

 tokens of our thinking budget.

 And then finally, I'm going to add into this params that we're going

 to send off to a

 converse function.

 I'll say params, additional model request fields.

 And that's going to be the additional model fields dictionary that we

 just created a

 moment ago, and that should do it.

 So now I'm going to make sure I run that cell.

 And then if we scroll down a little bit, I already put together a

 cell for us a little

 template here, where you can very easily test out thinking, I'm going

 to add in a query

 to Claude, and I'll ask it to maybe write a one paragraph guide to rec

ursion.

 And I want to enable thinking.

 So I'll put in a thinking of true, I'll then run this, print out all

 the parts, and we'll

 see what we end up getting.

 Well, before long, I get my response.

 And we can very easily see that it does in fact have two separate

 parts.

 So here's part one right here.

 That is our reasoning content part inside of it is going to be the

 thinking text.

 So that is giving us a clue as to what Claude is thinking about here.

 And then we've got our signature, which is going to make sure that we

 never try to tamper

 with or change this text right here, in case we ever decide to send

 this part of the message

 back to Claude to follow up our conversation.

 And then we've got the final text or the real guide that was

 generated down here a little

 bit lower.

 Now in some cases, you might want to test out your application and

 make sure that the

 code you wrote to handle these responses can handle a reasoning

 content that has the actual

 text.

 And you also want to make sure that it can handle getting a response

 that has the redacted

 content as well.

 So there actually is a way that we can force Claude to give us back a

 redacted content

 field just if we want to test out our application and make sure that

 we can handle this redacted

 content stuff.

 To force Claude to give us back some redacted content, we can update

 our prompt that we're

 sending in right here to include a very special string, one that I

 have already written out

 ahead of time inside of this notebook.

 So if you scroll up to the very top inside of client setup, you'll

 notice I put in their

 thinking test string right here.

 So that is the magic string.

 It's even labeled as magic string.

 If you include this exact string right here inside of your user

 message, Claude is guaranteed
