# Extended thinking

## Transcript

Let's examine one of Claude's more advanced features

known as extended thinking. Extended thinking

gives Claude time to reason about the user's query before

generating a final response. In many chat

UIs, this will be displayed as a separate thinking

process, which the user can optionally look at to

get better idea of how Claude is approaching their problem.

Now in general, enabling extended thinking will allow

Claude to tackle more complex tasks with greater

accuracy, but there are some big trade-offs here. You

are charged for tokens generated by Claude during

the thinking phase, and the phase itself takes some

amount of time to complete. So with increased

intelligence comes increased cost, and there's

increased latency as well. Now

a common issue around extended thinking is deciding

when to enable it. And the answer to this is really simple.

You're going to rely on your prompt eVals. So

you're going to write out a prompt. You're going to run an

eVal on it. And if the accuracy is not where

you want it to be, and you've already spent some good amount

of effort on improving your prompt in the first place, that

is when you would want to consider enabling extended thinking.

The use of extended thinking is fairly straightforward. Remember,

when we normally use Claude, we send over a user message

that might contain a text block. And then we're going to get back

an assistant message that contains a text block as well. When

we start to enable extended thinking, the response we get

back is going to contain a new block type that we

have not seen before called a thinking block.

Inside of this thinking block is going to be the text that was generated

while Claude was thinking. There's something really

interesting around this thinking block that I want to show you

right away, because you're going to see it really quickly as soon

as you start writing out some code and making requests

with extended thinking turned on. On the right-hand side,

I've got an example of an assistant message that includes a thinking

block and a text block. Inside the thinking

block, you'll notice that there is something called a signature. The

signature is a cryptographic token, and here's what it

does. If you want to take this message and send it back

to Claude as a piece of the conversation in the future,

Claude wants to make sure that you did not modify the text

in the thinking block in any way. The signature is

used to make sure that you did not change the text.

Claude doesn't want you changing that text at all because it is

relied upon very heavily during response generation.

And if developers were allowed to modify that text, they

could possibly steer Claude in an unsafe

direction. There's one other aspect of thinking

related to this idea. In some cases, you

might get back a thinking block that has a field of redacted

content without any thinking text at all. This

occurs whenever Claude generates some thinking text that

gets flagged by some internal safety system.

The redacted content is the actual thinking text,

but in a fully encrypted form. It is provided

to you so you can give this full message back to Claude

in the future as part of a conversation without Claude

losing any context on his previous thinking. To

really understand extended thinking, we need to write out a little bit

of code. So let's go back over to our Jupyter notebooks.

I've made a new notebook called 001 thinking.

Once again, it has a lot of the similar code that we've been working on

throughout the course, but I've added one or two very special

things. So I would encourage you to make sure you download this notebook.

It is attached to this lecture. In order to enable

thinking, we need to find our chat function. We're

going to provide some additional arguments to the chat function

that will eventually be added into this params object. So

I'm going to add in thinking. with

a default value of false, and then a thinking underscore

budget of 1024. The thinking

budget is the number of tokens that we want to allow Claude

to use in generating a thinking portion of the

response. The minimum value here is 1024,

so we cannot have a thinking budget less than

1024. It's entirely possible that Claude

will not spend 1024 tokens on thinking,

but again, this is the minimum that we can specify as the budget.

There's one other very important fact you need to understand around

the thinking budget. And that is, that max tokens

must be greater than your thinking budget. So

for example, if we have a thinking budget of 1024, max

tokens must be at least 1025. And

that's only going to leave one token remaining to

actually apply to generating some text. So usually you're

going to want to have a max tokens value that is generally

significantly larger than your thinking budget. So

in my case, I'm going to increase my max tokens here to

4,000. And now I've got a pretty big buffer. This

means that I can generate a response that has

1,000 tokens allocated to thinking, and

then a remaining 3,000 tokens can be allocated

to actually generating some text. Once

we have added in these two keyword arguments, we're then going to

add in some additional parameters to the params

dictionary. So scroll down a little bit and

down here. I'll say if thinking

is enabled, then I want to add in a new key

to my params dictionary, specifically thinking.

This is going to be a nested dictionary with a type

of enabled and a budget tokens

of whatever we passed in as the thinking budget,

like so. And that's it. So

I'm going to run the cell, I'll then scroll down to

the bottom so we can test this out. I'm going to ask Claude

to write out a one paragraph guide to recursion. I'll

then make sure that I update my chat function call right here to

enable thinking by passing in thinking true. I'll

then run this and let's see how we do. And

here's our response. So in the response, I get

two separate blocks. First, I have my thinking block,

and then a little bit lower down right there is the start of my

text block. Inside the thinking block, I do in fact

have a signature. And along with it, I've got my thinking

text. Remember, the goal of the signature is

to make sure that we don't tap or tamper with the thinking text in

any way. And of course, our text block right here contains

the actual guide that we ask Claude to write. Now

the last thing I want to show you is something that you might use when you

are initially building and testing out your application. As

a reminder, there might be some scenarios where Claude sends

back a redacted thinking block. As

you are building out your application, you might want to make sure that

your code works correctly whenever a redacted thinking

block is sent to you. So we can actually force

Claude to send us back a redacted thinking block.

All we have to do is send in a message that includes

a very, very specially formatted string.

So if you scroll up to the very top of the second cell

inside of here, you'll notice I put in thinking test

string. And then it has a value of Anthropic,

magic string triggered redacted thinking, and then a bunch

of special numbers and letters after it. If you

send exactly this string into Claude, you are guaranteed

to get back a redacted thinking block. Again,

we would just do this for testing purposes to make sure that we can

handle that kind of response. So let me just show you this to

you really quickly. I'm going to go back down to the bottom

cell. I'm going to add in a user

message that contains just that thinking test

string. I'll then send this in. And now

we should be getting back a response that's going to have a redacted

thinking block inside of it. There

we go. So I've got my redacted thinking block and

it has nothing but a data and a type of redacted

thinking. So now, like I said, we could just use

this to make sure that our application doesn't crash when receiving

this kind of unexpected thinking block

in response.
